>> Jason Lengstorf: Once
we've got our site set up,
the first thing that we need to do.
Is get our theme set up and running
with what's called a Pre-Bootstrap.
So we wanna make sure that any
folders that we're gonna use, exist,
because otherwise we'll get an error.
So if we're setting up a theme,
typically speaking that theme
is gonna look for Data.
And for example, the way our Docs theme is
gonna work, is it's gonna be looking for
a folder full of MDX files.
So if you install this theme into
a site and you don't know that and
you don't manually create that folder.
By default we would get an error that
says, couldn't find directory, whatever.
So we're just gonna go ahead and
check for that,
make sure the directory
exists before we boot up.
To avoid any of those confusing errors and
just save that work for
the people using the theme.
To do that we're going
to go into our theme and
we're gonna create a file
called gatsby-node.
This gives us access to the Gatsby
lifecycle methods during the build,
we can do a whole bunch of fun stuff here.
And what we need to do here is,
we're going to use a library or
a node-hook called onPreBootstrap.
And this lets us get into the Gatsby API.
And inside of it,
we are going to use the Gatsby store,
which is just some information
about the running program.
And then we're gonna
use the theme options,
which come in as the second
argument to most API hooks.
Inside of this, we're gonna get
the program out of the store's State.
Now this is kind of like
a deep Gatsby internal.
It's basically saying,
go into Gatsby store and
figure out where Gatsby believes it is.
Which you could also get with the or
the current directory.
But doing it this way just helps control,
so that the Gatsby environment will be
consistent no matter where you are.
Then we need to get some defaults, so
we need to make sure that
the options are always set.
So if this is empty, we don't want
that to come back as an empty object,
because we'll get errors.
So we need to get options with defaults.
And then after we've got
the options with defaults,
we need to figure out the content path.
And then once we know that,
we need to check if directory
doesn't exist
>> Jason Lengstorf: We need to create it.
So the first thing we need to do,
is write a little utility
function to get these defaults.
So there's not really a hard-and-fast
rule on how to do this, but
I'm just gonna create a utils folder.
And inside of it,
I'm gonna create default-options.js,
using my favorite little shortcut.
Which is that if you just type out
a file path with a slash in it,
it'll create that folder for you.
And inside of this,
I'm going to export a function.
And we're gonna set up our options here,
so
our basePath is gonna
default to just the root.
The path is what the URL will be,
so when we create pages,
we're gonna create these at
the root of the site by default.
And we'll allow people to override that
if they want it to live somewhere else.
Then we're gonna set up the contentPath.
So by default, we're gonna look for
a folder at the root of the site called
docs, and the content would live in there.
And again, we'll let people override that.
And then because of a quirk
with the way that MDX works,
we need to know whether or
not the site is already using MDX.
Because we can only have one
instance of it running at a time.
So I'm going to useExternalMDX and
by default
we'll assume that the site is not using
MDX, and we will install it ourselves.
And then, because we're just
feeding in an options object and
setting the defaults in
this destructuring here.
I can just return these straight up.
So we'll do basePath, contentPath and
useExternalMDX and
that's our withDefaults function.
>> Speaker 2: Should
that be module singular?
>> Jason Lengstorf: Sure should,
good catch,
that would have been fun to debug [LAUGH].
So yeah, module.exports,
not modules.exports.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So with this created,
we can go into our File and
we'll just include that.
So withDefaults, we'll call it that,
and we'll just require our
utils/default-options.
And so I can replace this TODO
with just the pieces we need,
so we're gonna use
the contentPath this time.
And we'll say withDefaults(options).
And so what we're doing is we're
taking the user supplied options,
dropping it into withDefaults.
And then just extracting the one
piece that we're gonna use.
So then, once we have that,
we're going to figure out where we are,
and then append the contentPath to that.
So to figure out where we are,
we're going to use the path module.
So will require('path') and
then we can set up our directory.
And that is going to be path.join and
we'll use the program,
so Gatsby's setup,
get the folder where Gatsby is running.
And then we will append
the contentPath to that.
So now we've created a directory that
is the location on the file system
of where content should exist.